README.md, before:

# mailcow exporter

* [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)
* [LICENSE](./LICENSE)
* [README](./README.md)
* [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) exporter for information about a
[mailcow](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized) instance.

## Usage

```bash
# As a docker container
$ docker run -p '9099:9099' thej6s/mailcow-exporter

# Natively
$ ./mailcow-exporter
```

The `/metrics` endpoint requires `host` and `apiKey` URL parameters. `host` is the
hostname of your mailcow instance. `apiKey` should be a readonly API key that can
be generated by logging into the mailcow management interface and navigating to
'Access > API'.

![Visualization of where to find the API Key](./.readme/api-key.png)

The following prometheus configuration can be used in order to pass these information
to the endpoint:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'mailcow'
    static_configs:
      - targets: [ 'mailcow_exporter:9099' ]
    params:
      host: [ 'mail.example.com' ]
      apiKey: [ 'YOUR-APIKEY-HERE' ]
```

It also supports an optional `scheme` URL parameter, that defaults to `https`.
Set it to `http` if you want to access API without TLS encryption.

## Example metrics

```
# HELP mailcow_mailbox_last_login Timestamp of the last IMAP login for this mailbox
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_last_login gauge
mailcow_mailbox_last_login{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 1.599255303e+09
mailcow_mailbox_last_login{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1.599247706e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_messages Number of messages in the mailbox
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_messages gauge
mailcow_mailbox_messages{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 23476
mailcow_mailbox_messages{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1891

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed Quota maximum for the mailbox in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed gauge
mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 3.221225472e+09
mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 3.221225472e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_quota_used Current syze of the mailbox in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_quota_used gauge
mailcow_mailbox_quota_used{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 1.919023167e+09
mailcow_mailbox_quota_used{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1.844312552e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailq Length of the queue
# TYPE mailcow_mailq gauge
mailcow_mailq{host="mail.example.com",queue="deferred",sender="foo@bar.com"} 2
mailcow_mailq{host="mail.example.com",queue="deferred",sender="test@bar.com"} 1

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_age Age of quarantined items in seconds
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_age histogram
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="10800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="43200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="86400"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="259200"} 3
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="604800"} 9
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="1.2096e+06"} 12
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="2.592e+06"} 41
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_age_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 1.301292926e+09
mailcow_quarantine_age_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="10800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="43200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="86400"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="259200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="604800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="1.2096e+06"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="2.592e+06"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_age_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2.7138547e+07
mailcow_quarantine_age_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_score Score of quarantined mails according to rspamd
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_score histogram
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="0"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="10"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="20"} 41
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="40"} 122
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="60"} 136
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="80"} 141
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="100"} 141
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_score_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 16225.91000000001
mailcow_quarantine_score_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="0"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="10"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="20"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="40"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="60"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="80"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="100"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_score_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 3988.03
mailcow_quarantine_score_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_count Number of mails currently in quarantine
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_count gauge
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="0",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="0",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="1",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="1",recipient="test@bar.com"} 0

# HELP mailcow_api_response_size Size of API response in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_api_response_size gauge
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailbox/all",statusCode="200"} 4395
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailq/all",statusCode="200"} 1798
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/quarantine/all",statusCode="200"} 47898

# HELP mailcow_api_response_time Response time of the API in milliseconds (1/1000s of a second)
# TYPE mailcow_api_response_time gauge
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailbox/all",statusCode="200"} 81
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailq/all",statusCode="200"} 615
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/quarantine/all",statusCode="200"} 46

# HELP mailcow_container_running 1 if the container is running, 0 if not
# TYPE mailcow_container_running gauge
mailcow_container_running{container="acme-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/acme:1.74"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="clamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/clamd:1.36"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="dockerapi-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dockerapi:1.37"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="dovecot-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dovecot:1.130"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="ipv6nat-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="robbertkl/ipv6nat"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="memcached-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="memcached:alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="mysql-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mariadb:10.4"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="netfilter-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/netfilter:1.38"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="nginx-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="nginx:mainline-alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="olefy-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/olefy:1.3"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="php-fpm-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/phpfpm:1.69"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="postfix-exporter",host="mail.example.com",image="unikum/postfix_exporter"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="postfix-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/postfix:1.51"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="redis-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="redis:5-alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="rspamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/rspamd:1.68"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="sogo-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/sogo:1.83"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="solr-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/solr:1.7"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="unbound-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/unbound:1.12"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="watchdog-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/watchdog:1.82"} 1

# HELP mailcow_container_start Unix timestamp of the container start
# TYPE mailcow_container_start gauge
mailcow_container_start{container="acme-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/acme:1.74"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="clamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/clamd:1.36"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="dockerapi-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dockerapi:1.37"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="dovecot-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dovecot:1.130"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="ipv6nat-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="robbertkl/ipv6nat"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="memcached-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="memcached:alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="mysql-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mariadb:10.4"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="netfilter-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/netfilter:1.38"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="nginx-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="nginx:mainline-alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="olefy-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/olefy:1.3"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="php-fpm-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/phpfpm:1.69"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="postfix-exporter",host="mail.example.com",image="unikum/postfix_exporter"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="postfix-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/postfix:1.51"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="redis-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="redis:5-alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="rspamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/rspamd:1.68"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="sogo-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/sogo:1.83"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="solr-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/solr:1.7"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="unbound-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/unbound:1.12"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="watchdog-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/watchdog:1.82"} 1.599247354e+09

mailcow_rspamd_action{action="add header",host="mail.example.com"} 187
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="greylist",host="mail.example.com"} 473
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="no action",host="mail.example.com"} 10766
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="reject",host="mail.example.com"} 701
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="rewrite subject",host="mail.example.com"} 0
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="soft reject",host="mail.example.com"} 0

mailcow_rspamd_bytes_allocated{host="mail.example.com"} 2.9931856e+07

mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="allocated"} 450
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="freed"} 0
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="oversized"} 3
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="shared"} 86

mailcow_rspamd_classification{classification="ham",host="mail.example.com"} 11239
mailcow_rspamd_classification{classification="spam",host="mail.example.com"} 888

mailcow_rspamd_connections{host="mail.example.com"} 2
mailcow_rspamd_control_connections{host="mail.example.com"} 4
mailcow_rspamd_fragmented{host="mail.example.com"} 0

mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="local",host="mail.example.com"} 136
mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="mailcow",host="mail.example.com"} 177818
mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="rspamd.com",host="mail.example.com"} 1.333294152e+09

mailcow_rspamd_learned{host="mail.example.com"} 1609

mailcow_rspamd_pools{host="mail.example.com",state="allocated"} 1293
mailcow_rspamd_pools{host="mail.example.com",state="freed"} 1250

mailcow_rspamd_scanned{host="mail.example.com"} 12127
```

Commit message:

chore: Updated readme to new features
Since the host and API Key can be set using flags or environment,
this should be documented.

README.md, after:

# mailcow exporter

* [CHANGELOG](./CHANGELOG.md)
* [LICENSE](./LICENSE)
* [README](./README.md)
* [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md)

[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io) exporter for information about a
[mailcow](https://github.com/mailcow/mailcow-dockerized) instance.

## Usage

```bash
# As a docker container
$ docker run -p '9099:9099' thej6s/mailcow-exporter

# Natively
$ ./mailcow-exporter
```

The `/metrics` endpoint requires `host` and `apiKey` URL parameters. `host` is the
hostname of your mailcow instance. `apiKey` should be a readonly API key that can
be generated by logging into the mailcow management interface and navigating to
'Access > API'.

![Visualization of where to find the API Key](./.readme/api-key.png)

The following prometheus configuration can be used in order to pass these information
to the endpoint:

```yaml
scrape_configs:
  - job_name: 'mailcow'
    static_configs:
      - targets: [ 'mailcow_exporter:9099' ]
    params:
      host: [ 'mail.example.com' ]
      apiKey: [ 'YOUR-APIKEY-HERE' ]
```

It also supports an optional `scheme` URL parameter, that defaults to `https`.
Set it to `http` if you want to access API without TLS encryption.

### Setting host or api key on application start-up

When using the exporter for a single mailcow host, it might be useful not to send `host` and `apiKey` with every request, since they don't change.
Hence the API Key or Host can be set on application startup using flags or environment variables.

The host can be set using the flag `host` or the environment variable `MCE_HOST`. If both items are set, the flag wins.

The API Key can be set using the flag `apikey` or the environment variable `MCE_API_KEY`. If both items are set, the flag wins.

**NOTE**: When using this, it might be a good idea to restrict access to the exporter via localhost (set `listen` flag to `127.0.0.1:9099` or `::1:9099`) or to restrict access to a local network, but not to bind the port on all interfaces.

## Example metrics

```
# HELP mailcow_mailbox_last_login Timestamp of the last IMAP login for this mailbox
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_last_login gauge
mailcow_mailbox_last_login{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 1.599255303e+09
mailcow_mailbox_last_login{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1.599247706e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_messages Number of messages in the mailbox
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_messages gauge
mailcow_mailbox_messages{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 23476
mailcow_mailbox_messages{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1891

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed Quota maximum for the mailbox in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed gauge
mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 3.221225472e+09
mailcow_mailbox_quota_allowed{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 3.221225472e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailbox_quota_used Current syze of the mailbox in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_mailbox_quota_used gauge
mailcow_mailbox_quota_used{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="foo@bar.com"} 1.919023167e+09
mailcow_mailbox_quota_used{host="mail.example.com",mailbox="test@bar.com"} 1.844312552e+09

# HELP mailcow_mailq Length of the queue
# TYPE mailcow_mailq gauge
mailcow_mailq{host="mail.example.com",queue="deferred",sender="foo@bar.com"} 2
mailcow_mailq{host="mail.example.com",queue="deferred",sender="test@bar.com"} 1

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_age Age of quarantined items in seconds
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_age histogram
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="10800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="43200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="86400"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="259200"} 3
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="604800"} 9
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="1.2096e+06"} 12
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="2.592e+06"} 41
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_age_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 1.301292926e+09
mailcow_quarantine_age_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="10800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="43200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="86400"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="259200"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="604800"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="1.2096e+06"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="2.592e+06"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_age_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_age_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2.7138547e+07
mailcow_quarantine_age_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_score Score of quarantined mails according to rspamd
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_score histogram
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="0"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="10"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="20"} 41
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="40"} 122
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="60"} 136
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="80"} 141
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="100"} 141
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_score_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 16225.91000000001
mailcow_quarantine_score_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="0"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="10"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="20"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="40"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="60"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="80"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="100"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_score_bucket{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com",le="+Inf"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_score_sum{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 3988.03
mailcow_quarantine_score_count{host="mail.example.com",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2

# HELP mailcow_quarantine_count Number of mails currently in quarantine
# TYPE mailcow_quarantine_count gauge
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="0",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 147
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="0",recipient="test@bar.com"} 2
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="1",recipient="foo@bar.com"} 0
mailcow_quarantine_count{host="mail.example.com",is_virus="1",recipient="test@bar.com"} 0

# HELP mailcow_api_response_size Size of API response in bytes
# TYPE mailcow_api_response_size gauge
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailbox/all",statusCode="200"} 4395
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailq/all",statusCode="200"} 1798
mailcow_api_response_size{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/quarantine/all",statusCode="200"} 47898

# HELP mailcow_api_response_time Response time of the API in milliseconds (1/1000s of a second)
# TYPE mailcow_api_response_time gauge
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailbox/all",statusCode="200"} 81
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/mailq/all",statusCode="200"} 615
mailcow_api_response_time{host="mail.example.com",endpoint="api/v1/get/quarantine/all",statusCode="200"} 46

# HELP mailcow_container_running 1 if the container is running, 0 if not
# TYPE mailcow_container_running gauge
mailcow_container_running{container="acme-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/acme:1.74"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="clamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/clamd:1.36"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="dockerapi-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dockerapi:1.37"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="dovecot-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dovecot:1.130"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="ipv6nat-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="robbertkl/ipv6nat"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="memcached-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="memcached:alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="mysql-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mariadb:10.4"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="netfilter-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/netfilter:1.38"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="nginx-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="nginx:mainline-alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="olefy-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/olefy:1.3"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="php-fpm-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/phpfpm:1.69"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="postfix-exporter",host="mail.example.com",image="unikum/postfix_exporter"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="postfix-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/postfix:1.51"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="redis-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="redis:5-alpine"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="rspamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/rspamd:1.68"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="sogo-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/sogo:1.83"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="solr-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/solr:1.7"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="unbound-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/unbound:1.12"} 1
mailcow_container_running{container="watchdog-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/watchdog:1.82"} 1

# HELP mailcow_container_start Unix timestamp of the container start
# TYPE mailcow_container_start gauge
mailcow_container_start{container="acme-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/acme:1.74"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="clamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/clamd:1.36"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="dockerapi-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dockerapi:1.37"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="dovecot-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/dovecot:1.130"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="ipv6nat-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="robbertkl/ipv6nat"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="memcached-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="memcached:alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="mysql-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mariadb:10.4"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="netfilter-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/netfilter:1.38"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="nginx-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="nginx:mainline-alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="olefy-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/olefy:1.3"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="php-fpm-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/phpfpm:1.69"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="postfix-exporter",host="mail.example.com",image="unikum/postfix_exporter"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="postfix-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/postfix:1.51"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="redis-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="redis:5-alpine"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="rspamd-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/rspamd:1.68"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="sogo-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/sogo:1.83"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="solr-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/solr:1.7"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="unbound-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/unbound:1.12"} 1.599247354e+09
mailcow_container_start{container="watchdog-mailcow",host="mail.example.com",image="mailcow/watchdog:1.82"} 1.599247354e+09

mailcow_rspamd_action{action="add header",host="mail.example.com"} 187
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="greylist",host="mail.example.com"} 473
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="no action",host="mail.example.com"} 10766
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="reject",host="mail.example.com"} 701
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="rewrite subject",host="mail.example.com"} 0
mailcow_rspamd_action{action="soft reject",host="mail.example.com"} 0

mailcow_rspamd_bytes_allocated{host="mail.example.com"} 2.9931856e+07

mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="allocated"} 450
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="freed"} 0
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="oversized"} 3
mailcow_rspamd_chunks{host="mail.example.com",state="shared"} 86

mailcow_rspamd_classification{classification="ham",host="mail.example.com"} 11239
mailcow_rspamd_classification{classification="spam",host="mail.example.com"} 888

mailcow_rspamd_connections{host="mail.example.com"} 2
mailcow_rspamd_control_connections{host="mail.example.com"} 4
mailcow_rspamd_fragmented{host="mail.example.com"} 0

mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="local",host="mail.example.com"} 136
mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="mailcow",host="mail.example.com"} 177818
mailcow_rspamd_fuzzy_hashes{action="rspamd.com",host="mail.example.com"} 1.333294152e+09

mailcow_rspamd_learned{host="mail.example.com"} 1609

mailcow_rspamd_pools{host="mail.example.com",state="allocated"} 1293
mailcow_rspamd_pools{host="mail.example.com",state="freed"} 1250

mailcow_rspamd_scanned{host="mail.example.com"} 12127
```
